Okay.
So we are actually going to begin this lesson by reading through the official view documentation because
the problem that we are encountering is not unique to our app.
It's not like we've done anything wrong.
There's just a special step by step process that we need to follow in order to enable the use store
function to return a store type that is much more accurate, much more precise, and honoring the specifics
of our app, which is that global state interface.
Right.
So here, check out this documentation and what it tells us the U.S. provides.
It's typing so you can use TypeScript to write a stored definition.
And we saw that earlier in the course that it was as simple as declaring a basic TypeScript interface
and connecting it to our create store function.
That's totally fine.
You don't need any special typescript configuration for view.
However, if you're writing your view components in TypeScript, there are a few steps to follow, and
I think this is grammatically correct, a few steps to follow that require for you to correctly provide
typing for a store.
So to summarize, there's a few steps that we need to follow in order to correctly provide the type
things for a store wherever we use the user function.
So this first section right here is talking about the global dollar sign store property, but we know
that's only with the options API.
So if I scroll down here, we're going to see typing the use store composition function, which is for
the use with the composition API.
So right here, when you're writing your view component with the composition API, you will most likely
want you store to return to type store for you store to correctly return the type store.
You must take three steps.
Number one, define the typed injection key.
Number two, provide this injection key when installing a store to the view app and then finally pass
the typed injection key to the use store method.
All right, so here goes through it step by step.
And I want to quickly walk through these examples.
But don't worry if it all doesn't click yet, because we're all going to make it happen in our code
editor in just a minute.
So first off, we have to define the key using Vue's injection key interface along with your own store
typing definition.
So in this example, in the actual configuration for the store, you can see it's importing an interface
called injection key from view.
And right here it is creating a constant called key, which is of type injection key injection key accepts
a generic and that generic type is actually going to be the store interface which itself comes from
view.
You can see it important here on the second line and then the store interface itself requires a generic
which is going to be in this case state.
But all that state is in this example is the actual interface that stores the interface or the type
for our View Store State.
So in our example, we're going to replace state with our global state interface with those four properties.
And then you can see that is the type of this constant called key which is exported.
But all of the value is, is a symbol.
So symbol is something that I myself was not particularly familiar with before recording this course.
Symbol is a brand new primitive type in ESX, so primitive meaning it's one of the more lightweight
data types in JavaScript like number, string, boolean, etc. and all that it represents is basically
an immutable key, an immutable structure that you can use usually as a property for an object that
you want to stay immutable, which means unchangeable or irreplaceable.
To be quite honest, I don't know all the semantic details about how this all works under the hood and
how it connects with the use of this unnamed, anonymous, immutable symbol.
The point is, this is how the View team would like us to do it.
And the good news is we only have to do this once.
We have to define this key that is going to be this immutable, primitive data type that is primarily
used for identification, which is sort of what this key here is supposed to represent.
Just like a key opens a door or opens a safe.
This is going to be a key that's going to enable us to access the store and that's going to allow us
to connect it to our components.
All right.
So we're going to define this content called Key, which is going to be our type symbol or more specifically,
an injection key, storing all this information.
Then we're going to import that key wherever we are actually configuring our view application.
So right here and in our app, that is going to be the main that's fab and where we are creating our
view app, you're going to see that we currently have the code to add the U.S. store.
We're also going to add the injection key as the second argument to the use method.
All right.
We're going to show you how to do this in this code in just a second.
So both of these steps, step one, step two, we only have to do once.
We have to create the injection key.
And then wherever we configure view X to connect to our actual view app, we provide the key which sort
of establishes the connection between the two.
Then finally, in any view component that we actually want to use, you store and it says you can pass
the key to the use store method to retrieve that type store.
So right here we're using you store, we're going to import that same key that we defined in the first
step and we're going to provide it as the first argument to the use star function.
And simply by doing that, each time we're going to have access to the full type store.
So here you can see, for example, on stored that state account, it is typed as a number and that
goes back to this interface that is defined in this example where count is a number which proves the
whole idea.
That this component right here, this view component, is able to access the exact store and the exact
shape that it has right under the hood.
View X installs the store to the view app using views provide inject feature, which is why the injection
key is an important factor.
I don't want to go too much deeper into what this is doing, to be quite honest.
We really don't care.
It's an abstraction or a solution that the View X Development Team has built for us, and we can simply
utilize the recommended approach that they give to us and then never have to worry about it again.
The only thing is, wherever we're going to use use store moving forward, we're simply going to import
that key that we define and pass it in as the first argument to use store.
So let's make that a reality.
So let's walk through the exact same three steps except in our code base.
So I'm going to begin by going to our store index.
That's fine.
This is where we actually create our view store and it's here that I'm going to create my injection
key.
It's right here.
I'm going to import an interface called Injection Key, and that is going to come from view, not view
X but from view.
So we don't have any other imports from view.
So it's going to be a separate line.
Then in addition to importing the create store function from view, I'm also going to import the store
type.
You can actually see if I hover my mouse over store.
I believe one of these options is going to show store as the actual type right here.
So you can see that Typekit correctly infers that create store will return a store type, but we're
going to import it explicitly here because we're going to need to provide it for our key.
So we have these two interfaces and both of them of course require generic arguments.
You can see here interface injection injection key has that T in the brackets immediately after, which
means that it requires a generic type wherever it's used.
And right here you can see store also has that generic.
It has a different name of S, but it's still a generic and we can tell by the use of those brackets.
All right.
So right here, I'm going to export const.
I'm going to call my constant key.
And here I'm going to provide the type.
It's going to be IV type injection key, which is the interface we import it from view and remember
injection key accepts a generic and that is going to be the store interface that we also imported a
line to.
And store requires its own generic type argument, which is going to be our actual store state type.
And that of course is represented by our global state interface.
So I'm going to import that right here, import global state from and that's coming from the source
directory store types.
And I'm going to provide that right here as my generic type argument for the store interface, which
itself is the entire complete generic type argument for the injection key interface.
All right.
And this is just declaring the type of key for the actual value.
We're simply going to create a symbol.
And we don't need to import this because this is not a part of your view.
X This is a regular part of S JavaScript.
All right.
As a reminder to see you remember a global state, is this thing on the right?
It is our interface with the four properties.
And now we have connected all this logic together just because we already have global state imported.
Let's just be more explicit here.
Even though Create Store understands that it's working with a global state interface as the generic
to represent what the shape of the state property will be.
We can also explicitly add it since we already have an important in this file.
So let's add our brackets here for the generic type argument and provide a global state here as well
just because it doesn't hurt.
And it reminds us where this logic is coming from and we can easily command click into it and go into
that type definition right here on the right.
Okay.
So that completes step one and we never have to worry about it again.
The next thing we want to do is open up our main Dot's file.
So this is the file where we kick off everything in the app.
So this is the file where we mount the actual view app.
We create it right here.
And notice we have these use method calls where we are using the store and a route.
So this is where all the configuration takes place.
So right here from my store directory.
And remember by default TypeScript is reading the index file, which is the file on the left here we're
importing store, which is the default export.
I also want to additionally import the named export here, which is called key.
So I'm importing that symbol that we just declared right here.
And as the documentation, documentation tells us, wherever we are using the use method and providing
store as the first argument here, I also want to write key as a second argument, and that is almost
like providing the key that is needed to access the store.
All right.
So I'm going to save that.
And once again, this is a step we only have to do one time.
We never have to worry about it again.
All right.
So finally, we have these initial two steps completed.
We can come back to the component that we were worried about in the previous lesson, which is our checkbox
script component.
So right here it's going to be the job filter sidebar checkbox grouped that view component and the protocol
moving forward.
These are the steps that we're going to need to repeat wherever we're using your store is now, we're
going to need to import that key and provide it as an argument to use store wherever we want to use
it.
So right here, I'm going to import my key, which is a named export.
So I have to write curly braces and that's going to come from the source directory and the store directory.
And more specifically, it's indexed.
He has filed.
That's totally fine.
And right here, I just want to show you the before and after.
If I hover my mouse over the store constant, you can see it realizes that we have a view store, but
it doesn't understand the generic type, so it doesn't know the exact shape of that store.
So it assumes it has anything which defeats the entire purpose because it can't verify what are the
properties in our store state.
Now, as soon as I provide key right here, which is our import from line number 29 and I hover my mouse
to restore right now you can see it recognizes that it's a store whose state is going to be represented
by a specific type.
What type is that?
Our interface called global state, and that is the interface that has the four properties that we care
about.
So now we're going to be able to store that state and whenever we access any property on it, we're
going to make sure and TypeScript is going to tell us that it must be all of the four properties that
we actually have available on our global state interface.
All right.
So with that, we have performed a little bit better type checking here.
One other thing I want to fix up before we close this lesson off.
You'll notice here when I hover my mouse over selected values, it thinks it is a reactive object,
wrapping a never array.
That is not correct.
Our selected values will always actually be an array of strings, of course, wrapped up in view's reactive
object, which is created by ref.
Of course, there's no way for TypeScript to figure this out because we're simply giving it an empty
array and an empty array can be an empty array of any kind of type.
So to be more specific here, I'm once again going to provide a generic type.
We do that with the brackets right here, the less than sign and the greater sign.
And then I'm just going to clarify that selected values is going to be a type string array.
So a reactive object wrapping an array of strings.
So now selected values is correct, and that's going to be a little bit better right here.
We can see when I hover my mouse or select values and now understands it's a reactive object, wrapping
a string.
Right.
All right.
So that completes our proper connection of The View next door and it's typing more specifically to the
checkbox to component.
So now in the very next lesson, we can wrap up the refactor of this component by taking care of its
test suite.
So I'll see you there.